bin/README.md, before:

# wax

<!-- START doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->
<!-- DON'T EDIT THIS SECTION, INSTEAD RE-RUN doctoc TO UPDATE -->

- [NAME](#name)
- [SYNOPSIS](#synopsis)
- [DESCRIPTION](#description)
- [OPTIONS](#options)
  - [-c, --cache](#-c---cache)
  - [-d, --dir, --directory STRING](#-d---dir---directory-string)
  - [-D](#-d)
  - [-?, -h, --help](#---h---help)
  - [-m, --mirror](#-m---mirror)
  - [-s, --separator STRING](#-s---separator-string)
  - [-t, --timeout INTEGER](#-t---timeout-integer)
  - [-u, --user-agent STRING](#-u---user-agent-string)
  - [-v, --verbose](#-v---verbose)
  - [-V, --version](#-v---version)
- [EXAMPLES](#examples)
  - [grep](#grep)
  - [espeak](#espeak)
  - [nman](#nman)
- [CAVEATS](#caveats)
- [VERSION](#version)
- [SEE ALSO](#see-also)
- [AUTHOR](#author)
- [COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE](#copyright-and-license)

<!-- END doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->

## NAME

wax - webify your CLI

## SYNOPSIS

    wax [OPTIONS] program [OPTIONS] ...

## DESCRIPTION

`wax` is a command-line program which runs other command-line programs and converts their URL
arguments to local file paths. By default, the files are removed after the command has exited.

As well as adding transparent support for remote resources to commands that don't support them
natively, wax can be used to:

- add support for HTTPS (and any other protocols supported by [LWP](https://metacpan.org/pod/LWP)) to programs that only support HTTP
- add a mirroring layer to network requests (remote resources are only fetched if they've been updated)
- add a caching layer to network requests (remote resources are only fetched once)

## OPTIONS

The following `wax` options can be supplied before the command name. Subsequent options are passed to
the command verbatim, apart from URLs, which are converted to paths to the corresponding
files. URL arguments can be excluded from the conversion process by supplying a separator token.
Arguments after this are no longer processed by `wax` and are passed through verbatim e.g.:

    wax --cache --separator --no-wax cmd http://example.com/foo --no-wax --referrer http://example.com

Note that the `--cache` and `--mirror` options are mutually exclusive i.e. only one (or neither)
should be supplied. Supplying both will cause `wax` to terminate with an error.

### -c, --cache

Don't remove the downloaded file(s) after the command exits. Subsequent invocations will
resolve the URL(s) to the cached files(s) (if still available) rather than hitting the network.

If a local file no longer exists, the resource is re-downloaded.

Note: by default, files are saved to the system's temp directory, which is typically cleared when
the system restarts. To save files to another directory, use the `-D` or `--directory` option.

### -d, --dir, --directory STRING

Specify the directory to download files to. Default: the system's
[temp directory](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Temporary_folder).

### -D

Download files to `$XDG_CACHE_HOME/wax` or `$HOME/.cache/wax` rather than the system's
temp directory. Can be overriden by `-d`.

### -?, -h, --help

Display this documentation.

### -m, --mirror

Like the `--cache` option, this keeps the downloaded file(s) after the command exits.
In addition, a HEAD request is issued for each resource to see if it has been updated.
If so, the latest version is downloaded; otherwise, the cached version is used (if still
available).

If a local file no longer exists, the resource is re-downloaded.

### -s, --separator STRING

Set the token used to mark the end of waxable options e.g.:

    wax --cache --separator :: cmd http://example.com/foo :: --referrer http://example.com

Note: the separator token is removed from the list of options passed to the command.

### -t, --timeout INTEGER

Set the timeout for network requests in seconds. Default: 60.

### -u, --user-agent STRING

Set the user-agent string for network requests.

### -v, --verbose

Print diagnostic information to STDERR.

### -V, --version

Print the version of wax.

## EXAMPLES

### grep

    $ wax grep -B1 demons http://www.mplayerhq.hu/DOCS/man/en/mplayer.1.txt

### espeak

    $ alias espeak="wax espeak"
    $ espeak -f http://www.setec.org/mel.txt

### nman

Node.js man-page viewer

```sh
    #!/bin/sh

    node_version=${NODE_VERSION:-`node --version`}
    docroot="https://cdn.rawgit.com/nodejs/node/$node_version/doc/api"
    wax --cache pandoc --standalone --from markdown --to man "$docroot/$1.md" | man -l -
```

## CAVEATS

As with any command-line programs that take URL parameters, care should be taken to ensure that
special shell characters are suitably quoted. As a general rule, URLs that contain `&`, `~`,
`<`, `>`, `$` &c. should be quoted in shells on Unix-like systems and quoted with
embedded escapes in Windows `cmd`/`command.exe`-like shells.

It's worth checking that a program actually needs waxing. Many command-line programs already support
URLs e.g:

    eog http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Eye_of_GNOME.png
    gedit http://projects.gnome.org/gedit/
    gimp http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/6c/Gimpscreen.png
    perldoc -F "http://www.pair.com/~comdog/brian's_guide.pod"
    vim http://www.vim.org/

&c.

## VERSION

1.0.5

## SEE ALSO

- [rlwrap](http://utopia.knoware.nl/~hlub/uck/rlwrap/#rlwrap)
- [sshfs](http://fuse.sourceforge.net/sshfs.html)
- [zsh completion script](https://github.com/chocolateboy/App-Wax/wiki/Zsh-completion-script)

## AUTHOR

chocolateboy <chocolate@cpan.org>

## COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2010-2015 by chocolateboy

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself, either Perl version 5.10.1 or,
at your option, any later version of Perl 5 you may have available.

Commit message:

features: make -D DWIM
- add -D option to the nman example
- if the -d/-D directory doesn't exist, create it
  if its parent directory exists; otherwise, raise an error

bin/README.md, after:

# wax

<!-- START doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->
<!-- DON'T EDIT THIS SECTION, INSTEAD RE-RUN doctoc TO UPDATE -->

- [NAME](#name)
- [SYNOPSIS](#synopsis)
- [DESCRIPTION](#description)
- [OPTIONS](#options)
  - [-c, --cache](#-c---cache)
  - [-d, --dir, --directory STRING](#-d---dir---directory-string)
  - [-D](#-d)
  - [-?, -h, --help](#---h---help)
  - [-m, --mirror](#-m---mirror)
  - [-s, --separator STRING](#-s---separator-string)
  - [-t, --timeout INTEGER](#-t---timeout-integer)
  - [-u, --user-agent STRING](#-u---user-agent-string)
  - [-v, --verbose](#-v---verbose)
  - [-V, --version](#-v---version)
- [EXAMPLES](#examples)
  - [grep](#grep)
  - [espeak](#espeak)
  - [nman](#nman)
- [CAVEATS](#caveats)
- [VERSION](#version)
- [SEE ALSO](#see-also)
- [AUTHOR](#author)
- [COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE](#copyright-and-license)

<!-- END doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->

## NAME

wax - webify your CLI

## SYNOPSIS

    wax [OPTIONS] program [OPTIONS] ...

## DESCRIPTION

`wax` is a command-line program which runs other command-line programs and converts their URL
arguments to local file paths. By default, the files are removed after the command has exited.

As well as adding transparent support for remote resources to commands that don't support them
natively, wax can be used to:

- add support for HTTPS (and any other protocols supported by [LWP](https://metacpan.org/pod/LWP)) to programs that only support HTTP
- add a mirroring layer to network requests (remote resources are only fetched if they've been updated)
- add a caching layer to network requests (remote resources are only fetched once)

## OPTIONS

The following `wax` options can be supplied before the command name. Subsequent options are passed to
the command verbatim, apart from URLs, which are converted to paths to the corresponding
files. URL arguments can be excluded from the conversion process by supplying a separator token.
Arguments after this are no longer processed by `wax` and are passed through verbatim e.g.:

    wax --cache --separator --no-wax cmd http://example.com/foo --no-wax --referrer http://example.com

Note that the `--cache` and `--mirror` options are mutually exclusive i.e. only one (or neither)
should be supplied. Supplying both will cause `wax` to terminate with an error.

### -c, --cache

Don't remove the downloaded file(s) after the command exits. Subsequent invocations will
resolve the URL(s) to the cached files(s) (if still available) rather than hitting the network.

If a local file no longer exists, the resource is re-downloaded.

Note: by default, files are saved to the system's temp directory, which is typically cleared when
the system restarts. To save files to another directory, use the `-D` or `--directory` option.

### -d, --dir, --directory STRING

Specify the directory to download files to. Default: the system's
[temp directory](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Temporary_folder).

If the directory doesn't exist, it is created if its parent directory exists.
Otherwise, an error is raised.

### -D

Download files to `$XDG_CACHE_HOME/wax` or `$HOME/.cache/wax` rather than the system's
temp directory. Can be overriden by `-d`.

If the directory doesn't exist, it is created if its parent directory exists.
Otherwise, an error is raised.

### -?, -h, --help

Display this documentation.

### -m, --mirror

Like the `--cache` option, this keeps the downloaded file(s) after the command exits.
In addition, a HEAD request is issued for each resource to see if it has been updated.
If so, the latest version is downloaded; otherwise, the cached version is used (if still
available).

If a local file no longer exists, the resource is re-downloaded.

### -s, --separator STRING

Set the token used to mark the end of waxable options e.g.:

    wax --cache --separator :: cmd http://example.com/foo :: --referrer http://example.com

Note: the separator token is removed from the list of options passed to the command.

### -t, --timeout INTEGER

Set the timeout for network requests in seconds. Default: 60.

### -u, --user-agent STRING

Set the user-agent string for network requests.

### -v, --verbose

Print diagnostic information to STDERR.

### -V, --version

Print the version of wax.

## EXAMPLES

### grep

    $ wax grep -B1 demons http://www.mplayerhq.hu/DOCS/man/en/mplayer.1.txt

### espeak

    $ alias espeak="wax espeak"
    $ espeak -f http://www.setec.org/mel.txt

### nman

Node.js man-page viewer

```sh
    #!/bin/sh

    node_version=${NODE_VERSION:-`node --version`}
    docroot="https://cdn.rawgit.com/nodejs/node/$node_version/doc/api"
    wax -D --cache pandoc --standalone --from markdown --to man "$docroot/$1.md" | man -l -
```

## CAVEATS

As with any command-line programs that take URL parameters, care should be taken to ensure that
special shell characters are suitably quoted. As a general rule, URLs that contain `&`, `~`,
`<`, `>`, `$` &c. should be quoted in shells on Unix-like systems and quoted with
embedded escapes in Windows `cmd`/`command.exe`-like shells.

It's worth checking that a program actually needs waxing. Many command-line programs already support
URLs e.g:

    eog http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Eye_of_GNOME.png
    gedit http://projects.gnome.org/gedit/
    gimp http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/6c/Gimpscreen.png
    perldoc -F "http://www.pair.com/~comdog/brian's_guide.pod"
    vim http://www.vim.org/

&c.

## VERSION

1.0.5

## SEE ALSO

- [rlwrap](http://utopia.knoware.nl/~hlub/uck/rlwrap/#rlwrap)
- [sshfs](http://fuse.sourceforge.net/sshfs.html)
- [zsh completion script](https://github.com/chocolateboy/App-Wax/wiki/Zsh-completion-script)

## AUTHOR

chocolateboy <chocolate@cpan.org>

## COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2010-2015 by chocolateboy

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself, either Perl version 5.10.1 or,
at your option, any later version of Perl 5 you may have available.
